good morning everybody or good evening i
know we have people joining us from all
over the world so thank you so much we
are excited to kick off saster scale
2021 so thank you for tuning in
we are excited to have jen steele vp of
marketing at reprise and grace tyson vp
of sales at reprise they're going to be
walking us through product led growth
how to execute across the full funnel
and also learning from some of their
mistakes which i know we all love
so we have 40 minutes and there's going
to be plenty of time for q a at the end
so be sure to drop your questions
throughout the session using the q a
button at the bottom of the menu bar and
zoom
join me in welcoming grace and jen
before i let them dive into the content
let's start with why the data matters
for this session so can you both tell us
just quickly what results people can
expect from the presentation today
thanks so much for joining us go ahead
ladies
thanks caitlin i'm jenn steele i run
marketing here at reprise and my
pronouns are she and her i'm here with
my partner in crime who started the very
same day i did grace tyson
hello i'm grace tyson also pronouns she
her vp of sales here and at least from
my perspective you're if you like
learning from mistakes then you are in
for a treat today right and so the main
thing here is that there's a there's
a really interesting thing to take away
from these metrics and that is first
even though you make mistakes you can
actually get signups to your free
product as you can see by we when we had
our soft launch and official launch
um but then there's i'm gonna just share
our first mistake which is signing up to
do one of these um
sessions
five weeks after you launch something
when it takes six weeks to make
pipelines so we don't have as many
metrics as we'd love to share and
there's our first mistake and you can
learn from that
yes indeed
okay
so
just so you can understand and and avoid
all of our mistakes
we're going to talk about what we looked
like before plg
we're going to talk about kind of
looking at each other and saying holy
expletive deleted plg um we'll revisit
those metrics and some others and then
tell you how we could have avoided our
mistakes so that you can go on and make
new and different mistakes
and before i start i want to let you
know i have the allergies from hell and
so i may be muting uh to cough and if i
cough too much then we all get to see
how much grace knows about what happened
in marketing
it's gonna be a good little pop quiz for
me
we'll see just how align sales and
marketing are here
okay
yeah not at all
okay so let's talk about what we looked
at looked like before plg
so
target market is actually a pretty
classic enterprise target market um
enterprise sales and marketing teams
companies with software and us only now
grace i think you have a little more
color here because wow that seems like a
lot of people
yes uh it is so there's there's a quote
i really love from the ceo of microsoft
which is that in today's context all
companies are software companies so yes
we have a very very large uh total
addressable market here at reprise
but truly any any company with software
canon should you use reprise and that's
that's where we're focused particularly
sales and marketing teams i will say our
customers come to us with many other use
cases and people involved they get
excited once they see the product but uh
but yes that's that's the that's the
core focus
and so we were attacking this with a
classic classic i say classic as if
double funnel has become classic in the
last five years or so but basically um a
very simple double funnel model
so effectively inbound funnel um we
elected to go no gated content which a
makes things easier and b means that our
mqls our marketing qualified leads are
demo requests they go to the aes they
schedule with chili piper
and then the outbound funnel we do have
a target account list and we have a team
of what is it grace about 10 bdrs who
outbound to that
yeah that's right
cool
and of course we combine the outbound
strategy with a lot of tailoring um
grace and her team do amazing work like
all the sales leaders double down on the
bdrs so that they really get outbounding
and the other piece of our outbound
funnel isn't just the bdrs but grace
your aes are actually responsible for
some of their own pipe right that's
right yes uh so we take a a pretty
typical somewhat volume based strategy
but a lot of tailoring a lot of of
course leading with product which we'll
get into um and a lot of you know we
call me show me you know me so so
tailoring message uh video social cold
calling emails uh the whole shebang all
the stuff i don't respond to but all the
things that
jen will never take a meeting with us
totally
and then grace tell us about enterprise
sale yes okay so so as mentioned our our
account executive team is divided across
commercial and enterprise accounts as is
our bdr org uh and so
even though we are a company that
empowers other companies to do
plg uh we've still had a pretty
standard pretty traditional enterprise
sales motion at least up until our our
plg launch of course we're drinking our
own champagne and showing product and
letting people experience it but just to
sort of describe a little bit of that
typical process that we have
historically taken
people come to our website there's a lot
of cool and exciting you know jargon and
really great stuff from jen's team but
uh you know then they get on a
qualification call they maybe do
multiple qualification calls they get
asked a lot of bant questions
and then hopefully they eventually get
to see a demo if anyone has bought
software recently this might align with
your experience
um but finally see a demo after several
conversations and then in evaluation
maybe if they're if you just play your
cards right you finally get your hands
on the product um and can finally
experience it in your own business
context woohoo okay so that's
that's the very typical motion that i
have been used to um and and that i've
seen at most orgs i've been part of but
the thing is uh for us as we're thinking
we'll get here in a second with with our
own starter launch and how we've taken
on plg by storm
we know that most buyers don't want to
buy this way anymore and so i think
about uh my own experience with b2c and
others experiences with b2c products it
is just instant gratification to the max
we get our hands on the solution
immediately uh you know you know think
about uber airbnb
amazon prime god forbid you know
one day shipping if you're if you're
get your product right away
but that's how that's how what we've
gotten used to and that's how we want to
to buy we want our hands on the solution
immediately and we've really come to
expect it
and the large majority of our purchases
are tech purchases are b2c driven so
that's defining this trend so
short attention spans zoom fatigue is
real
people want to experience the product
sooner and so
this is the typical motion what we've
just outlined but we really have
realized and this is this is why plg we
realize that we need to flip that on its
head let people experience the product
sooner and let our products take center
stage and really tell tell the story and
tell the narrative tell our why
so
so holy expletive deleted blg um as
grace said we really needed to to learn
to do this and and so just so to give
you some context um we made a free
lightweight version of the product it
was offered on the website but we didn't
have a credit card uh motion we decided
very intentionally not to do that and
you'll see that reappear later in some
of our other mistakes slides but um
but basically the vision
um and we'll go into a little bit more
detail but basically sign up for starter
become a product qualified lead and i
throw you over the fence to grace
so
sorry allergies okay
so what we did step one figure out what
it is so um
so when grace and i joined on the same
day this was already in motion
and at my first exec offsite i was like
i was having some cognitive dissonance
so see i'm an enterprise marketer like i
come from marketing to amazon at oracle
et cetera i've marketed to banks i've
marketed to really big companies i know
enterprise and so i'm like why are we
doing this we're enterprise
will there be a credit card
and then when i finally got around to
the whole oh hey we should drink our own
champagne um you know realization
i then had to sit down with product and
say okay well i know what our enterprise
product does what are you building
starter for what are you building this
to do
um and actually we recorded that
conversation and released it as a
reality show if you want to take a look
at that and see just how embarrassing i
can be believe me it's worse here it's
worse than here
okay so step two now that i'm like oh my
stars like i actually know what this is
i've got to figure out how to market it
um and the big question for me questions
for me was do we put money behind it and
should it be our primary call to action
it's really hard to figure out should i
put money behind a free offering that
might eventually lead to a product
qualified lead or should i keep putting
money behind driving bottom of the
funnel demo requests
we also have the same question on our
website should it be our primary call to
action and we actually decided that for
now we're not going to put much money to
it behind it which also explains why our
numbers are a bit low
and it is not the primary call to action
on our website
so
step three figure out how that we're
flowing this right we know how a demo
request flow goes
but
when you start getting product involved
a it's a third team you know
where before grace and i could just
annoy sales ops and marketing ops to
death um
now we actually had to put product in
the mix and there was even questions of
like okay so is it the pm that deals
with this do we deal with an engineer
what's going on here
um and here is basically what we decided
to do
fun fact you can also see my recorded
conversation with grace on that reality
show why i let my team talk me into a
reality show that's not even on a slide
is a mistake but we're gonna move on um
so basically
because we have the double funnel and
owned accounts we realize that from a
marketing perspective we need to treat
things in two different ways and that is
if it's an existing customer or an owned
account then we need to give a heads up
to the person that owns the account
whether that's the email to the csm or
the email to the ae
and then we have we we had to define
what a product qualified lead was we had
to say what actions are they going to
take in the product
that will allow them
that will allow them to allow us to be
like hey grace your team can have this
now
and so basically
from a super high level you build a
thing and you publish a thing and we
call it a replay and we decided that if
they get far enough in the starter flow
then we can call them a pql and hand
them over to grace at which point in
time then her team has a few flows here
yes
which i can which i'm happy to speak to
uh so the the first from my perspective
when i came came into this this flow and
figuring figuring this out alongside
marketing and product obviously very
cross-functional so a lot of moving
pieces
my recommendation which we'll talk about
more with the mistakes made is to have a
very clear definition of of what a pql
product qualified lead is so what is the
trigger point at which you should amp up
you should actually involve the sales
team and have more of a human touch
and then of course there are the details
like make sure that you have lead
routing set up make sure that you have
you know that email automation to the
rep so that they're getting served that
information based on actual user data
within the free version so
requires very tight alignment uh with
product on the user date of visibility
very tight alignment marketing of course
as well and figuring out
where their automated you know nurture
educational drips going out to these
these sign ups and then when should a
sale when is it worth a sales person's
attention because of course that's gonna
drive up uh the cost to acquire
customers it's going to get them into
the enterprise sales motion and
hopefully lead to the results you want
but um
very much intentionality is required
there in
but something i've learned from this
from this experience and what we decided
to do is we decided to have product
signals pass into marketing automation
and then marketing automation would
handle the routing so just in case
anybody was wondering how we finally
ended up doing it and i say finally for
reasons you're going to find out later
hey grace what about training sales
super important don't overlook this uh
so
everything on everything on the slide
here is is really crucial you need to
have if you're going to launch a plg
private load growth or or even just
product led sales approach then it's
it's crucial of course to inform the
sales team don't overlook it realize
that there will be a natural fear for
salespeople when you start talking about
selling through
rep free experiences um that's gonna
that might cause a little bit of
perturbance um if that is a word i think
i said it wrong but it's early uh so
please yeah make sure that the sales
team is is super aware of the need for
the change um
we realized that we needed to implement
this part one because we are a company
that is supporting other companies doing
plg but also because we know that that's
the buyer experience the world is
shifting to
half a buyer's site
demos as the most valuable material
during the buying cycle but almost half
of buyers also want a rep free
experience and that number is going up
as we look at millennials taking on
leadership roles done
so that that's all really important to
frame up to the sales team the the why
and how this will actually empower them
rather than take away their role because
in fact
plg and product load sales approach can
can really
go smoothly and and be a actual huge
benefit to the buyer creating a
frictionless experience and also to the
sellers in terms of creating future
pipeline of opportunities at the point
in which they're ready to really go on
to the full platform so that all needs
to be framed up really clearly in the
training that matters a lot so i would
put a lot of thought into
how you frame it and the why for your
business and the impact to the sales
team and really think through that and
make sure it's clear and then tactically
speaking uh when we did our live
training we talked about the why we
talked about the flow that that jen just
showed but also we package everything up
with uh outreach sequences and emails uh
call scripts and training on the
approach for running a call with someone
who has signed up through the starter
version versus a cold discovery call
that's been sourced by the bdr team it
should be a different approach it needs
to be a more consultative approach value
added more of a partner and and helping
them reach the next level in terms of
how they're leveraging the product
versus this this cold you know
educational approach for someone who
hasn't even seen or experienced or know
what your product does
so all of that's very important package
it up with those those template
sequences and call scripts is my
advice
my learning your team kicked out kicked
butt on the training grace
thank you
all credit to my team and not to me on
that one
and step five of course was launching it
so what we basically did is we put a
banner on the site it wasn't our primary
call to action as i mentioned we
released a video a week later we
released the infamous reality show that
i might have referenced a few times we
announced it at a conference
um that targets one of our primary
personas in fact the persona most likely
to play with it
and so
launch
and metric so far as i said these come
with a disclaimer of it's only been
about five weeks and thanksgiving was
one of those weeks just saying
this one looks familiar um we've had now
it's above 300 signups for starter
and then i call this the sales ish
metric slide because we've had 34
percent conversion
um from product sign up to peek you out
remember i said they had to take a
sequence of steps
or tbd on pipeline generation as i
mentioned um now what's interesting is
grace you might not you're like 34 that
should mean i have a hundred pqls where
are my pqls
fun fact a lot of them are small
business
and so we need to change our version of
pql
a bit
and um
yeah so
grace do you have any color here
uh yes so
i
agreed and and and not totally
surprising that a lot of starter sign
ups would be from emerging segments i
will say we actually did win our first
deal already in just a matter of weeks
from that started on signer which their
startup uh
that started on starter uh which is
amazing so we're seeing good early
signal there uh but yes a lot of
emerging businesses as expected and
actually as as we want because we want
part of our our mission here is to fuel
full funnel product led growth for all
organizations and so to us it's
important that those those smaller and
emerging businesses can leverage the
product and hopefully when they're ready
we'll be we'll be waiting sales team
will be waiting to talk to them so
okay so now the reason that you all are
here let's tell let's tell the people
how many times we messed up shall we
let's do it
but where are product delays
um
there was a hard deadline that we set
because we were doing marketing motions
of a lightning strike and we set this
date it was november 8th um the
lightning strike being combined
marketing motions we set it for november
8th we started buying billboards we
started doing like all this crazy stuff
and the thing was that it was supposed
to soft launch in like august
and then september
and then october
and oh and then our founders came to us
and said oh by the way we can also
announce funding at the same time
surprise so when you're going to launch
your free product avoid our mistake and
honestly i really thought that a few
months was enough of a delay but it's a
new product and when you're launching a
brand new product even if it's just a
cut down version of your current one
even if it's just kind of a free trial
um
build in more delay than you would for
like a major feature launch
because and even then it'll probably
surprise you
number two uh stand your ground this was
a very big mistake that i made
and that is that and grace could
probably attest to this um
fundamentally we had a lot of should we
or shouldn't we should we launch this
um november 8th right with the lightning
strike or shouldn't we and this was
especially salient because when we
rolled the funding in mark the marketing
team and there were all of like four of
us at the time
kind of lost our minds right i mean
we're here we are thinking we're
launching a product and now we have to
shift our resources to funding
we had some product fear what if
we get thousands and thousands and
thousands of signups
right um we need to shard this out we
need to do a lot of things on the back
end to make this happen
um but where i really messed up here was
that i didn't pick a direction and go
and as the kind of like the person
launching this as the the team lead
launching this
i really should have just said we are or
we're not as opposed to having
discussion after discussion after
discussion um
sometimes you just need to say f it and
go is one thing that i kind of live my
life by and i failed to do that here so
yes you obviously um those of you who
might be in marketing or who work on go
to market motions obviously the product
team has to govern things but you need
to make those direct those decisions
together
we also decided that because of the
product fear we would actually introduce
a lot of friction to the process and so
um not only is it not our primary call
to call to action not only did we not
put money behind it but then um
the sign up was to
a hubspot form that then
the product manager gated before he'd
sent out the invites so that we made
sure that we didn't have a flood
basically and actually as of this monday
now that we have the new shard up and
running
we are now actually sending out the real
invite now we're still putting in a
little bit of friction in the process
you fill out the marketing automation
platform form and then we send you the
link to sign up for the product maybe
someday you'll go straight to the
product but we're taking baby steps here
leave time for ops
i think grace and i both kind of messed
this up
they're
introducing product i mean to me i was
just like oh it's just another signal we
can pipe it in via the hubspot api and
have done
um that wasn't the case and i managed to
i have a senior director of marketing
starting full-time in january who god
bless him decided to we managed to bring
him in for five weeks before he had his
kid
to really
uh unmess up the ops i used a critter
term i'm not gonna lie um there were so
many gotchas um there there were more
systems there's more complexity while
you're leaving all that time for product
to slip you should start ops way earlier
than you think
and then grace i don't even know what it
looked like from your side
same very much so uh yes start the
conversation with ops early and often i
massively underestimated the
complexity here and i
admit that i left my ops team somewhat
scrambling so don't don't be like me
don't do that to to poor phoebe or your
or your corresponding sales sales ops
marketing rev ups uh folks they they
need
a heads up and they need time to get
that all together it was more complex
than i had envisioned originally i think
it felt so simple when we were laying it
out grace didn't it oh there's it
if it's here we brought it here if it's
there we wrote it there
so easy yeah no it's not really not just
in case you were wondering any ops
people who are listening are shaking
their heads at us at this moment
um
and another big whoops was demand gen
um and in in dimension i'm like looking
at all of the kind of demand motions so
um we didn't think through our target
accounts as thoroughly as we should have
and when grace and i laid out laid it
out we actually had sign ups going to
the wrong team
like and so my head of demand jen was
like um that doesn't actually make sense
why do we have the aes following up here
and the bdrs following up there it
should be the reverse
um and then we discovered three weeks in
that we forgot to turn on the how to
nurture which probably didn't lead to a
lot of product qualified leads either
this i think was very much a symptom
of
starting
all of this stuff too late
basically because i didn't stand my
ground we didn't think through these
things enough and so
things fell through the cracks like not
turning on the how to nurture and
embarrassingly nobody in marketing was
the one that discovered that it was the
product manager who discovered that he's
like hey jen why isn't this on and i
went back to my team and i said hey team
is there a reason we don't have this on
and they're like
nope i'll go turn it on
so
there's a
there's all of this grace any color here
i just completely echo that i was
thinking as you were talking jen i was
thinking
what could we have done what should we
have done and could we have done
differently just to give some really
tactical advice for anyone thinking
about uh products like growth at their
own organization and
it's the it's the timing it's the
timeline piece i would say as well i
think we
it was a mad rush at the end and so
as soon as you get wind of of this as a
strategic initiative it's really
important to sit down and and
probably jot down these these different
items of consideration and and stage it
out um startup life right scale up life
so so it is what it is but
yes i wish we had gotten ahead of this
more in advance and and really staged it
out timeline wise it was a it was a rush
yes and now that you know all of these
mistakes you don't have to make them
okay exactly make your own okay grace
this one's all you yes okay i spoke
about this a bit earlier but
anytime we're talking about this sort of
sales rep free or
less sales involvement on potential
pipeline potential opportunities there
there can be a natural fear with sales
people we fear change quite often as
people sales people are no different so
there's there's this natural tension and
this fear of
becoming obsolete from the sales side
and also a fear of cannibalizing the
potential opportunities that you can
sell to on the sales side if they're
able to use this this free version of
the product
so
i would say my advice is again get ahead
of this really early
talk about this early and often so why
is plg additive and rather than
something and why will it make them more
effective at their jobs and set them up
for greater success
with less work
than the alternative um and then
i mean that and that's super important
because for us it's
we believe that buyers should have a
really amazing experience with with our
organization and that it should be
frictionless
and there's this misalignment between
buyers and sales reps buyers want to see
the product they want to experience it
they want fewer sales interactions
and then of course in sales we have we
have our discovery questions we need to
get med pick we have we have information
we need to get gosh darn it so
training them on this early and often um
and talking through it is really
important say what you're going to say
say it say what you said
rinse and repeat when it comes to
messaging this to the sales team and
making sure that they know how to best
leverage this amazing uh you know time
and time investment from that the
executive team is making in terms of plg
and i didn't help with this because i
would go up in an all hands and talk
about the starter or in the or the sales
announcement meeting and be like starter
soft launch and it was before grace and
her team had a chance to message it and
thank goodness we sell plg
because a plg platform because at least
our sales team had the messaging they
were giving our buyers to fall back on
as like they're there it'll be okay but
there was still some some
nerves there that i did absolutely
nothing to help by freaking them out
thank god we sell what we sell and
believe in it
ready fire aim
yes okay so i'll i'll start and pass to
you jen uh
do it if this is an important this is an
important investment to make and if your
company believes it
there will be surprises so i so it is
important to as jen said stand your
ground be clear on what matters for the
first iteration and know that it's
iterative and know that this investment
is is worth it because ultimately and
this is where i'd say another learning
is
if you're really clear on what your
goals are from this initiative
it's a no-brainer uh plg drives down the
cost of acquisition it increases your
your customer mps score it allows you to
expand your customers faster we're
already seeing those results with with
one business from our starter launch
which is super exciting
but go make new mistakes don't make the
mistakes that we we made what would you
add judd
well it's interesting because i had
mentioned before that
free and then enterprise and then grace
and i had chatted offline about maybe we
should have this middle product for the
smbs i mean we think we have a kickback
platform and maybe we should actually
let smaller companies use it at a price
point that's
more attractive to them
um
but grace and i didn't necessarily
bubble that all the way up to i don't
know ops that would have needed to know
it
finance things like that and so we were
very much ready for aim but that's okay
like yes we are able to do this now
without a credit card so yes we have
more friction before people can give us
money which is never a good idea
but
um we're okay with that because we do
still have people using starter we are
landing deals with starter and it's okay
that you're gonna have to evolve and
you're gonna have to change and you're
not going to do things perfectly
although i really hope you make
different mistakes now that you've heard
ours
i agree
in conclusion
go ahead grace
yeah so so just to sum it all up before
we bounce over to q a there's a lot of
planning and change management
outlined here these are some of the
things that you should think about early
and and be realistic about how long it
takes to put some of these things
together so you're not scrambling a few
days ahead of time with the sales
training for example
not that i would ever do that but you
know learn from our mistakes make make
different ones and also the other
takeaway is this this is achievable and
this is important because this is
ultimately
we obviously firmly believe this is the
future that product led growth is is the
way that buyers want to buy it's the way
we expect to be able to buy we want to
be able to experience products earlier
without necessarily talking to sales 10
times before getting to experience the
product and so
in order to be out competition in my
opinion this is this is crucial and it's
it's something that is in the future not
going to even be
it's not going to be optional so start
thinking about it now is my is my firm
firm advice and go do it and make
different mistakes
yes okay now let's take a look at q a
um how do you avoid high churn rates
from free trials like the starter plan
um
we don't
we don't avoid high churn rates because
we kind of use the starter
um as you kind of self-qualify like
either you need this product or you
don't either it works with your system
or you don't um
and that's actually part of the reason
we've like put it on a different shard
than our production product is so that
we can can do that now that doesn't mean
we're not going to try to improve the
experience um you know there there are
plans for the marketing team to make uh
a walk-through of the free trial
for example which we hear helps helps
people understand how to how to use it
but yeah
grace anything here you want to attack
no i agree yeah the
just the goal is not to
avoid high churn rates from from that
free product um so i would just echo
what you said we're not we're not right
um grace this one's for you are most of
your free trial users the ultimate
decision maker on keeping the product
and if not how do you broaden engagement
and i'm going to say no they're usually
the user and not the buyer so grace how
do you attack that correct yes well
that's that's we use reprise to attack
that personally which is very specific
to us and any customers of reprise
but ultimately what we are enable is we
can take product uh tours and share them
around with other stakeholders so that
they can experience the product too even
without going through the starter sign
up so for us it's it's using a demo
creation platform i.e reprise to do that
um because most of it most of the time
it is it's individual users so our flow
is once it becomes a pql or product
qualified lead specifically then the
sales team is engaged or if it's a
customer and it's a new point of contact
at a customer then our customer outcomes
team is engaged automatically through
that beautiful diagram that jen and her
team helped us help us get together and
so it's it's two two ways with us we use
reprise we show share the product tours
with different decision makers so they
can also experience the product and then
it's also once they're a pql getting
them on a conversation talking through
the use case teasing out the business
value and then widening the audience in
the good old-fashioned uh sales way yes
um we've got a question about percentage
of customers do we win back we don't
know yet stay tuned maybe next year
we'll tell you about new and different
mistakes we've made in scaling
as opposed to launching a marketing
strategies to use to raise awareness of
the free trial in the first place this
one's interesting because we decided not
to put dollars behind it when we do have
the freemium the credit card motion in
then i can justify putting marketing
dollars behind it and then we're gonna
do linkedin advertising and sem
um don't freak out grace i promise this
will get you more pqls eventually but um
but um
right now it just kind of it's almost if
you build it they will come we've done a
lot of brand plays like we made sure it
was on the site when we did the
fundraiser raising announcement for
example
but um
but until we have we make it easy for
people to give us money we're not going
to put marketing a lot of marketing
strategy behind it and then we'll
honestly use some traditional demand
motions especially those that tend to
work with more emerging or smb companies
let's see how do you define what pql
stage is reached
i think i think we just addressed this
during the talk but there i think
there's two halves of this i'm gonna
address the product half and then grace
you can address the qualification piece
that means we don't have 300 pql's right
now and that is that
there's basically a three-phase process
in our product and that is capture edit
publish
effectively and so
basically when they hit the publish
state is when
we marketing has defined it as a pql
but wait there's more
then what happens grace
so uh yeah from our from our side
exactly like you said what we we thought
about what what is the trigger in
product that a a user what user action
triggers this to be someone who is
highly engaged in the product and worth
engaging from a sales perspective that's
the pql that's publishing a replay in
our particular case so something to
think through if you're implementing
this type of approach um from there it
is
i mean
we're kind of learning to be completely
honest on exactly what happens next and
whether that is the right trigger point
so more to come in our next talk on
scaling this next year of course
but uh but currently
from there it's the ae will actually
reach out and get get involved and offer
support we have very specific outreach
that we that we provide to help educate
them based on what they've done in the
product so they start getting user
insights after they reach pql and then
they go out and they're they're
outreaching to those folks
not sure if i answered the question but
more to come i i think we're figuring it
out as a perfectly reasonable answer um
somebody asked how soon after someone
signs up for the free trial to your
people contact them they we don't
contact them until they take the pqo
motion and then also i believe if
they're qualified and are out right if
they're a one-person company
it's probably not worth enterprise sales
right yes correct
um do inbound pql and outbound leads all
funnel to the same aes or do you have
different ae teams for each funnel
go ahead grace
good question currently they all funnel
to the same aes we have just shy of 20
account executives 10 business
development reps on the team right now
so we're a bit early in our growth to
actually have dedicated teams depending
on the type of lead um so yes it's it's
across the board but
where we do have a difference is um you
know if it again if it's a customer
versus a a net new account and if it's a
named owned account already it will go
to that account executive that owns the
account and if it's not owned it will
round robin within the segment either
commercial or enterprise we did toss
around the idea of whether we wanted
these uh these different leads depending
to go to business development reps
versus the aes
so
for pqls and particularly folks that
have signed up for starter and then pql
those go right to aes because we see
that as a really strong signal for
getting into our sales funnel and
bypassing the bizdev function as a note
so in our last three minutes i'm going
to try to do a few quick hits
um do the bdrs reach out during the
trial or are they only nurtured with
emails only nurtured with emails right
now
let's see service limits you can find
our website timing what was the full
timeline like i don't know about
building the product because grace and i
started while it was in flight um but i
would say
probably two
two months and it should have been three
exactly
for our previous learnings yeah yeah um
and then what were some of our goals for
the shift to plg besides responding to
emerging buying trends domination really
it was domination uh and and i'm not
actually kidding uh it was but
two things one is that obviously we
believe in the mission of our company we
wouldn't be exact here otherwise um just
like i'm sure all of you believe in the
mission of your company right um
and so going you know truth justice in
the product-led way or whatever you'd
like to call it um
we wanted to do that um but we also
believe that we can help a lot of people
and the beautiful thing about starter is
that in five minutes they can kind of
accomplish their goal with our product
which
i love
so
i think those are the quick hits do we
have a checklist on things to plan um no
and we should have
so
and i think those are the
quick hits do we i was i answered those
a little faster than i expected to but
uh it was great but seriously
we hope that you you will learn from our
mistakes we're around if you want to
chat um you can find us on
on twitter and all of the social medias
and
thanks everybody for attending this very
early at least for me in seattle session
yes thank you all so much thank you jen
and grace thank you all be sure to check
out the rest of the sessions today